It's a game in which you control and work around the environment to defeat your enemies.  You'll suffocate them, roast them, drown them, crush them, maul them, and strangle (pffft) them.  They will be trying to do the same to you.

You'll both have to work around a mutually supportive and hostile environment, filled with giant obstacles, deadly beasts, lethal pitfalls, and inconvenient landscaping.  You'll utilize unusual natural features, the shape of the battlefield, and your own tactical skill to undermine your opponents'  counter-efforts, and you'll find allies, in other environmentalists and in the environment itself, to complement your abilities and negate your opponent's.


The battlefield will typically be covered in vegetation.  Both flat plains and steep hills will be common, while the rarer cliffs and mountains will also make appearances.  Battlefields will usually be quite large.

While most of the battlefield will begin hostile, you can change that.  The easiest way to do that will be to exert your power over the local environment, leaving pockets of special air, erecting columns of stone, or simply starting a fire.

A more powerful and permanent method will be to charge an area with your power.  It will always take some time, and leave you at least partially vulnerable, more so if you don't prepare defenses.  Charging will occur in stages, only some of which will remain if you fail to finish charging.

The first stage series will be deactivation of hostile attention.  After each successful stage, the attention range of the hostiles in this area will decrease.  There will be two permanent stages here, at midrange, allowing only midrange attackers and nearby hostile inactives to notice you; and zero range, allowing only already attacking mobile attackers to attack, as well as some incredible range aggressives.

The second stage series will be deactivation of hostile intention.  After each successful stage, the range in which you can be attacked by hostiles will decrease, and they will slowly bleed off, layer by layer.  Some types will be more resistant than others, based on your own power types, and a very few will continue to attack even at completion of this stage.  There will be only one permanent stage.

The third stage series will be cooperation and access to potential.  At this point, power can be more easily exerted over local wildlife and natural features.  This stage series has only one very long stage.

The fourth stage series will be full participation and symbiosis.  This area is now your friend, and friends have each others' backs.  Be sure to protect this area as much as it protects you.  This stage series comes in three permanent stages, all very long, and requires plenty of power.






The only way to grow stronger will be to acquire new skills.  Some skills will be stronger when coupled with certain other skills.  Sometimes the boost will be automatic, and sometimes skills will need to be manually combined.

Acquiring new skills requires a combination of three things - experience, charge, and imagination.  The first two steps will be to gain experience with a skill by using it and to charge the skill with your power during battle.  The two can be performed simultaneously.  Once the skill is both full on experience and fully charged, it will unlock new options on a giant tree of skills.

These new options won't become available yet, though.  While you will be notified and shown when and how you unlocked these new skills, you won't be told what they are.  You'll have to enter guesses as to what skills you have unlocked.  Certain keywords will be parsed and fully unlock their corresponding skill(s).
Let's give it a try!



==Air==
Dense Air Pocket
	Toxic Air Pocket
		Poisonous Air Pocket
	Burning Air Pocket
Thin Air Pocket
	Minor Vacuum
		Major Vacuum
	Stable Air Pocket (Dense)
		Stale Air Pocket
Breeze
	Wind
		Ripple
		Wind Wall
			Blast
			Falling Wall
				Oh Dear Fun World
		Gale
			Airstream
				Galestream
		Tornado
			Line Tornado
				Controlled Tornado
				Roaming Tornado
					Seeking Tornado
			Detritus
	Air Barrier
	Push
		Punch
			Battery
	Paper Airplane
		Strike
		Streak
		Balloon (Wind)
			Carry
				Burst
				Drop
				Station
					Follow
Heat
	Roast
		Bake
		Boil
	Wave
Cold
	Chill
		Frost
			Freeze
Clean Air
	Clear Air
		Air Bubble
	Oxygen


==Water==
Cool
	Cold
		Chill
		Snuff
Warmth
	Heat
Clean Air
Call Water - heavy charge, 3-tier
	Call Water Stream
Splash
	Punch
	Splash Stream
		Point Stream
	Cold Splash
		Toxify
			Poison
Clean Water
	Clear Water
		Air Bubble
Current
	Undertow
	Whirlpool
		Waterspout
Stack [Ice]


==Fire==
Fire possesses the talent of multitasking.
Bake
	Burn
	Boil
Flame
	Fire Wall
	Fire Turret


==Ice==
(Stack) [Water]
	Grow
		Permafrost
		Spiked Surface
		Ice Column
Projectile
Split
	Ice Balls
		Ice Spikes
Frostbite
	Frostburn






Elementalists will be enemies, only.
Ele-mentalist: Telekinesis, hostile takeover, 
High mountains, steep valleys.  An Earth Environmentalist will be absolutely necessary.
Minecraft needs larger mountains, canyons.
The Second City, a city upon a city.




Each time the game grows, older versions will still be available, and general quality updates will be applied to all versions.





Cloud Environmentalist skills.  They'll only be good for mountaintop fighting, or other high lands, but they'll be very strong.
Included will be heavily-saturated poisonous cloud effects and cloudwalking.






To move, click on the environmentalist, and keep holding down.  Drag the mouse to draw the move path.  You can also shift+click the environmentalist to create an automatic path from one point to another.  When a move is activated, the screen will zoom out.  Moving near the edge of the screen will continue the zoom in that direction.  Holding still over a part of the map will zoom in to that part of the map.

Environmentalists will move somewhat rapidly.




